Google Gemini new free updates are
insane. Google just dropped seven
massive updates to Gemini in one single
week. Seven. And nobody is talking about
it. Today I am going to show you every
single one of them. One of these updates
literally turns your notes into a movie,
like an actual cinematic video from your
documents for free. Another one turns
Google search into a full workspace
where you can plan, write, and code. And
there is a brand new Gemini model that
is insanely fast. We are talking 2 and a
half times faster than before. This is
the biggest week Google has ever had for
AI. Uh and if you are not paying
attention right now, you are going to
fall behind. Let me break it all down.
So, so let us start with the first
update. Google just released something
called Gemini 3.1 Flashlight. Now, I
know that name sounds complicated. It is
not. Here is what it actually means.
Google built the fastest and most
efficient version of Gemini ever. This
thing responds two and a half times
faster than the previous version. And it
generates output 45% quicker. So if you
are building anything with AI, chat
bots, content tools, translation apps,
anything, this model lets you do it way
faster. But here is the part that is
really cool. You can actually choose how
hard the model thinks. Like you can set
it to minimal thinking for simple stuff,
medium thinking for normal tasks, or
high thinking when you need it to really
figure something out. So you are in full
control. You pick the speed, you pick
the intelligence level, and it still
handles text, images, video, and audio.
This is not some watered down model. It
is legit powerful. It just happens to
also be super fast. If you are a
developer or you are building AI tools
for your business, this is a gamecher.
Now, here is where things get absolutely
wild. Update number two, Notebook LM can
now create cinematic videos from your
documents. I am not joking. You upload
your notes, your research, your
articles, whatever you have. And
Notebook LM turns it into an actual
animated explainer video, like a mini
documentary. Before this update,
Notebook LM could make basic narrated
slideshows. Cool, but nothing crazy. Now
it uses three different AI models
working together. Gemini handles the
storytelling and the narrative. Another
model generates the images, and Veo3
handles the actual video creation. So
Gemini is literally acting like a movie
director. It decides the story
structure. It picks the visuals. It
controls the pacing. It even chooses the
narration style. And then it reviews its
own work and fixes anything that looks
off. Think about what this means for
you. You have a research paper. Upload
it. You get a video. You have meeting
notes. Upload them. You get a video. You
are a student. Upload your study guide.
You get a video. This is insane for
content creators, educators,
researchers, literally anyone who has
information they want to turn into
something visual. Right now, this is
available to Google AI Ultra
subscribers. But the fact that this even
exists is mind-blowing. Hey, if we have
not met already, I am the digital avatar
of Julian Goldie, CEO of Goldie Agency.
Whilst he is helping clients get more
leads and customers, I am here to help
you get the latest AI updates. Julian
Goldie reads every single comment. So,
make sure you drop a comment below and
let him know what you think about these
Gemini updates. All right, let us keep
going because update number three is
also a visual one. Notebook LM now has
10 custom styles for infographics. So,
not only can it make videos, it can also
turn your complex information into
beautiful infographics with one click.
Comparison charts, timelines, flow
diagrams, visual summaries, all
generated automatically. And you get to
pick from 10 different design styles.
So, if you are making a presentation,
creating social media content, or just
trying to understand something
complicated, you can turn it into a
visual in seconds. Notebook LM is not
just a note-taking tool anymore. It is
becoming a full research to visual
content machine. You put information in,
you get beautiful content out. Simple as
that. Now, update number four is one
that I think is going to change how
millions of people use Google every
single day. Google just added something
called canvas inside AI mode in Google
search. Let me explain what that means.
You know how right now when you search
something on Google, you get links and
maybe an AI summary at the top. Well,
now there is a workspace panel built
right into search is called canvas. And
inside it, you can organize plans, you
can draft content, you can build coding
tools, you can edit projects, all
without leaving Google search. Think
about that for a second. You search for
something. The AI gives you an answer
and then right there in the same window,
you can start working on it. You do not
need to open Google Docs. You do not
need to switch to another app. It is all
right there. This is like Google Docs
and a coding workspace and an AI
assistant all merged into one thing
inside search. right now is only
available in the US. But when this rolls
out everywhere, it is going to
completely change how people work. And
Google search is not just a search
engine anymore. It is becoming an AI
operating system. Now, if you are
watching this and thinking, "Wow, I need
to start using AI to actually grow my
business." I want to tell you about
something. I built a community called
the AI Profit Boardroom. is the best
place to learn how to scale your
business, get more customers, and save
hundreds of hours with AI automation.
And with updates like these Gemini
features dropping every single week, you
need a place where you can actually
learn how to use them. Inside the
boardroom, we break down exactly how to
apply tools like Google Gemini, Notebook
LM, and all of these AI systems to your
actual business. So, if you want to stay
ahead and actually use this stuff, check
the link in the description for the AI
profit boardroom.
All right, back to the updates. Number
five, Google released something called
Android Devbench. This one is for the
developers out there. It is basically a
leaderboard that lets developers test
how good different AI models are at
coding for Android. So, you can compare
models side by side, see which one
writes better code, find weaknesses, and
pick the best model for your app. If you
are building Android apps, this is huge.
It is like having a testing lab where
you can put every AI model through its
paces before you commit to using one.
Google wants developers building better
apps with AI and this tool makes that
way easier. Update number six is a
little different. It is more on the
research and safety side. Google created
something called Ground Source is an AI
powered data set designed to help
communities prepare for flash floods.
The system collects environmental data
and helps AI models predict flooding,
analyze patterns, and improve disaster
response. This is part of Google's
bigger push to use AI for climate and
safety. It is not as flashy as the other
updates, but it matters. AI is not just
about making content and building apps.
It can literally save lives, and Google
is investing in that. And finally,
update number seven. Google upgraded
their AI design tool called Stitch with
Gemini 3.1 Pro. Stitch helps designers
work with large design systems. Think of
it like having an AI assistant that
understands your entire brand, your
colors, your fonts, your layouts,
everything. And now with Gemini 3.1 Pro
powering it, the reasoning is better,
the design consistency is better, the
attention to detail is better. If you
are a product designer, a UX team, or
anyone working with design systems, this
upgrade means the AI can now handle the
bigger and more complex projects while
keeping everything on brand. So that is
seven updates in one week. Let me zoom
out for a second and tell you why this
matters. Google is not just building a
chatbot anymore. They are turning every
single Google product into an AI powered
system. Search is becoming a workspace.
Notebook LM is becoming a video
production studio. Gemini models are
getting faster and smarter. Developer
tools are getting AI leaderboards. The
people who learn how to use this stuff
early are going to have a massive
advantage. So, here's what I want you to
do. First, go try these tools. Go to
Notebook LM and upload some notes. See
what it creates. Go play with AI mode in
Google search if you are in the US.
Check out the new Gemini models in AI
Studio. Actually get your hands on this
stuff. Second, if you want the full
process, the SOPs, and over a 100 AI use
cases like the ones I just showed you,
join the AI success lab, it is our free
AI community. The link is in the
comments and the description. You will
get all the video notes from there, plus
access to our community of 38,000
members who are crushing it with AI. And
if you are serious about scaling your
business with AI, the AI Profit
Boardroom is where you want to be. We
show you exactly how to automate your
workflows, get more customers, and use
tools like Google Gemini to save
hundreds of hours. Every single week,
we're breaking down updates just like
these and showing you how to actually
apply them. The link is in the
description. Drop a comment below and
tell me which of these seven updates
blew your mind the most. Julian reads
every single one. I will see you in the
next